# Writing
In Laughter Out of Place Donna Goldstein describes the humour at the heart of the book as: “a comprehensible response to a moral and legal system that is currently incapable of addressing the grievances of women in the dominated classes” (pp. 271-272). What grievances is she referring to? How have the moral and legal systems failed? What sort of response is humour to these failures? Is it an expression of resistance? Justice? Surrender? Suffering?

	“Laughter Out of Place”, is an ethnographic account set in a Rio favela –referred to as “Felicidade Eterna”. Goldstein’s narrative is centred around the life of her main protagonist and informant Gloria and her enlarged family. Whilst focus is on female perspective, the stories of men’s lives are also included. At the time of conducting this participant observation study, Goldstein gets particularly intrigued and then absorbed by the humour inside of ‘Felicidade Eterna’.  It turns out to be a perfect means to attei/reach the findings (about the society Brasilian0 she was looking for in order to make a research quality. That is – the humour becomes a lens to view the world from the perspective of the participants of her studies, a tool to delve into their deep sentiments. These, in turn, come into sight even more strikingly with the overview of the broader context of the social and political system in which they are entangled. We see that the reality is harsh, violent, power relations, systems – political and moral, inequalities, injustice.  The grievances of their reality cause a form of resentiment – as it will be overviewed – sense of hatred, surpressed feelings. The conscious and subconscious sentiments towarda upper classes are by vehicle of humour. It also expresses the will to change the staus quo = of the power relations – and the constructions which are inherent in the utrzymanie of these power relations – crucial axis to the study  and as repeated numerous times– constructions around gender race, class and sexuality. Humour will be discussed firstly as to disemtangle/ deconstruct the conscious and unconciosus social constructions, and delve in the deep sentiments, understanding ofd their reality and problems. Secondly, it will discussed as a means used not necessarily intentionally to challenge the status quo of the system that had been constructed - of power realtions between people of different classes, gender or race, also to challenge set values, morality, even till aesthetics set by the uipper classses also showing theit hegemony. 

 Looking first into the nature of the humour - disentangling the sentiments they show and what the peculiarity of this is about. The particularity of the humour lies in its inappropriateness as should be perceived from the perspective of an ‘outsider’. What may seem dramatic, in “Felicidade Eterna” (spelled?) often appears to trigger laugh. The disentanglement of the humour is only possible when the knowledge about the context - the set constructions, systems, of the reality of protagonists' lives is taken into account. As it has been already said, crucial elements of the context here are following: race, class, gender, and sexuality - and especially the power relations between them and what the powiazane constrcutons around them may constrain. To understand the particuality of the humour of Donna's participants - their space in this system will be portrayed so the jokes may be more understandable. The overall - ressetiment - hatred,a nd want to change. That is, the lower class females of favela are entangled in the range of issues of their life, constraints put upon them due to their identity. These are the grievances of daily life such as violence, poverty, frequent deaths of children, lack of proper conditioons to live, to survive, abusive partners, necessity of slavery work comined by the expectations imposed on these women to support family. These are also the constraints due to their identitie s- for example, the restricted access to education in favelas, and lack of conditions for it, the significance of skin colour in the status, and place n the power realtions, or due to gender - being female - the expectations and responsibility for the support of family - often enlarged, often at the cost of commitment to slavery work, aLlso the issues of women as being objectified sexually thus beuing vulnerable to sexual abuse - just to name a few of expressions of how the gender defines set of behaviours and roles. Brazil - racial democracy? Sexual=positivity>
Humor as a way to transgress from the passive 'feminity' to active 'masculinity' by women thus the sexual liberation and a way to overcome the 'partial truths - the beliefs about the 'sex-positivity' with the suppressed the contested aspects of sexuality and certain aspects of the sexuality of the lower-class Carioca women (chapter on the partial truths and desire).
 A few questions to ask. Donna shows not alweays. She also shows the legal systems - juridical e.g. and moral do not odpowiadaja to theaesthetics of thwe. This grotesqueness and the sense of the existing power relations, unfairness, failed systems legal and moral - are shown in some jokes - here Zeca, and some other. Then construcitons - also some joke show here was. Knowing this we 'get the jokes'. - up to 500

  The failed systems - expressed in grievances, the constrcutons imposed, relations, sentiments - harsh- acknowledgemetn of that - it all leads to the resserntiment that makes them want to change it - to change it is to acknowledge it and by articvulation of it, by creating the new 'collective' culture, morality, and aesthetics is to challenge the imposed system and to challenge the hegemony. Humour turns out to be a perfect means for it - puts in to doubt, mamking it grotesque and making thene w morality. Firstly, lets look at the two theories that stand for this point - both as ioncluded in the framework by D.G. - the thoery of power of foucualt and the theory about the huimour0 -... 

